###### Prediction 5_19

noteable world issues:
- trade war between us/ australia and china
aus election    
- right wing liberal coalition wins the election with likely majority government. this is due to conservative queensland whose economy depends on carbon emissions/ mining industry. also scare campaign, poor campaign from opposition. 
- green party retains all 9 seats, with a 2.61%  voting swing towards them (increase in primary vote)
- recent brexit bill faltering @david davis set to vote against (former brexit secreatry). may is set to propose a bill in early june, but its very similar to the one before -- no further thinking on the northern irish backgstop. 
- google blocks huawei access to android updates @concerns of cyber intelligence/ hacking
- successful aus companies 2019 in asx200
    + fortescue metals (based on iron ore commodity prices due to increased iron ore prices based on suply concernns) up 120% since year start. this is because there have been disruptions in brazil/ australia iron ore supplies == chinese iron futures reached record highs. also fortescue has very generous dividends. 
    + afterpay - up 109%: pay after model0
    + nearmap - 140% gain: aerial imagery technology. 
- thje new labor leader is likely to be anthony albanese, after tanya pliberseck withdrwew
- polling called into question due to how severely wrong it was @white pages approach, people that are actually willing to respodn represent a very specific sub population: sampling error. all 5 polling companies weer quoting th esame numbers, and were all wrong. 
- other stokcs
    + altium
    + appen
    

20th:
PREDICTIONS: none
- 20th, the 4 bank stocks surged at the opening, with wbc opening 10% higher, stable from there.
- aus dollar stable at 0.69 after spike on saturday post election victory (after looking bearish at 0.682)
- asx 200 highest it has been in 11 yeras (since just before the crisis 07-08)
- reason for banks icnrease @labor would have slashed tax incentives (dividend imputation; franking creddits) == less demand for house prices. labor also would have been more aggressive on the banks after the royal commission. 
- large caps up, some small  caps are down.

21st: 
predictions:
- standard mild correction after lage gains previous day -- the 4 bank stocks might be corrected about 1%, or remain steady. 
- aus dollar will remain in steady up trend. will probably go to 0.695, close to 0.70 then back down to 0.69 possibly by end of the week.
- thc asx will remain under pressure, not passing above 0.47 for the next week-2 weeks. undervalued. 
.


22nd
- using google trends, is a very good tool
- bitcoin will likely be downtrending the next few days, find a new equilibriuma around 6000, failed to secure itself above 8000 @historic resistance at this level. 

### Predictions for May/ June 2019
- markets
    + aus dollar will steadily increase back to 0.70 with liberal reinstalled to power
    + house prices may stabilise or increase slightly in the next few months
- politics
    + albanese will become opposition leader, with no current clear contenders.
    + liberals will do practically nothing about the royal commission result.
    + 
- economy
    + there will be increased confidence in the economy at least temporarily, driving up consumer spending. unemployment will remain at about 5% nationwide.
